Common/Essential-Studio/Documentation-Setup.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Documentation Setup | common | Syncfusion
description: documentation setup  
platform: common
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---

# Documentation Setup  

Documentation is provided for both User Guide and Class Reference.


## User Guide

Local documentation - A complete set of documentation for the User Guide is provided under the following headers. 

Installed Documentation – Offline User Guide setup files have been removed for Essential Studio 11.4.0.26 and later; instead, the User Guides are provided in PDF file format. Documentation pertaining to Essential Studio can be installed with your copy of Syncfusion local resources. Explore the following to have a better idea of Essential Studio products.

* User Guide PDF

This local documentation can be accessed from the Dashboard > Utilities > Documentation > Local Documentation.



![](Documentation-Setup_images/User-Guide_img1.png)





N> When you have not installed local documentation, then a prompt opens to download the setup.

Online Documentation: Syncfusion provides comprehensive documentation online, to help you understand Essential Studio products, better. This can be accessed from the Utilities > Documentation > Online Documentation.

![](Documentation-Setup_images/User-Guide_img3.png)

## Class Reference

Local documentation - A complete set of documentation for Class Reference is provided under the following headers. 

Installed Documentation - Documentation pertaining to Essential Studio can be installed with your copy of Syncfusion local resources. Explore the following three categories of documentation to have a better idea of Essential Studio products.

* Visual Studio 2005/Visual Studio 2008 Class Reference
* Visual Studio 2010/Visual Studio 2012/Visual Studio 2013 Class Reference

This local documentation can be accessed from the Dashboard > Utilities > Documentation > Local Documentation.

![](Documentation-Setup_images/Class-Reference_img1.png)



Online Documentation: Syncfusion provides comprehensive documentation online, to help you understand Essential Studio products better. This can be accessed from the Utilities > Documentation > Online Documentation.



![](Documentation-Setup_images/Class-Reference_img2.png)

Commit message:

Spelling errors fixed and Dashboard content removed

Common/Essential-Studio/Documentation-Setup.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Documentation Setup | common | Syncfusion
description: documentation setup  
platform: common
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---

# Documentation Setup  

Documentation is provided for both User Guide and Class Reference.


## User Guide

Local documentation - A complete set of documentation for the User Guide is provided under the following headers. 

Installed Documentation – Offline User Guide setup files have been removed for Essential Studio 11.4.0.26 and later; instead, the User Guides are provided in PDF file format. Documentation pertaining to Essential Studio can be installed with your copy of Syncfusion local resources. Explore the following to have a better idea of Essential Studio products.

* User Guide PDF

This local documentation can be accessed from the Syncfusion Control Panel > Utilities > Documentation > User Guide PDF.



![](Documentation-Setup_images/User-Guide_img1.png)





N> When you have not installed local documentation, then a prompt opens to download the setup.

Online Documentation: Syncfusion provides comprehensive documentation online, to help you understand Essential Studio products, better. This can be accessed from the Utilities > Documentation > Online User Guide.

![](Documentation-Setup_images/User-Guide_img3.png)

## Class Reference

Local documentation - A complete set of documentation for Class Reference is provided under the following headers. 

Installed Documentation - Documentation pertaining to Essential Studio can be installed with your copy of Syncfusion local resources. Explore the following three categories of documentation to have a better idea of Essential Studio products.

* Visual Studio 2005/Visual Studio 2008 Class Reference
* Visual Studio 2010/Visual Studio 2012/Visual Studio 2013 Class Reference

This local documentation can be accessed from the Syncfusion Control Panel > Utilities > Documentation > Class Reference.

![](Documentation-Setup_images/Class-Reference_img1.png)



Online Documentation: Syncfusion provides comprehensive documentation online, to help you understand Essential Studio products better. This can be accessed from the Utilities > Documentation > Online Class Reference.



![](Documentation-Setup_images/Class-Reference_img2.png)
