Common/Essential-Studio/Installation/Essential-Studio-Platform-Framework-Add-Ons.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Essential Studio Platform Framework Add-Ons  | common | Syncfusion
description: add-ons for .net framework 2.0,3.5 and 4.5.1
platform: common
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio Platform Framework Add-Ons

## Overview

Starting with version 16.4.0.* (2018 Volume 4), Syncfusion has removed the .NET Framework 2.0, 3.5, 4.5.1 and MVC3 assemblies and provide the separate Framework Add-On setup for the following platforms. . 

N> Only customers with valid license can download and install the Framework Add-Ons

* Windows Forms
* WPF
* ASP.NET
* ASP.NET MVC
* JavaScript

## Prerequisites

To install the above platform add-ons, corresponding Essential Studio platform setup should be installed in the same version. If not, prerequisite alert will be displayed.

![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn1.png)

## Step-by-Step Installation

The following procedure illustrates how to install Syncfusion Platform Framework Add-On setup.

1.  Double-click the Syncfusion Platform Framework Add-On setup file. Welcome wizard will be displayed. Click Next.

    ![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn2.png)

2.  Confirmation to run the Assembly Manager will be displayed. Click Next. 

    N> If you do not need the assemblies to be installed in GAC, uncheck the **Run Assembly Manager** checkbox and click Next.

    ![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn3.png)

3.  **Ready To Install** wizard will be displayed. Click **Install** to proceed installation of Syncfusion Platform Framework Add-On setup.

    ![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn4.png)

4.  Syncfusion Platform Framework Add-On installation will be started.

    ![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn5.png)

5.  Completed screen will be displayed once the installation is completed. Click Finish to exit the setup.
  
    ![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn6.png)
	
Now, you can find the Framework 2.0, 3.5 and 4.5.1 assemblies from the Syncfusion Essential Studio Platform installed location.

**Location:** {ProgramFilesFolder}\Syncfusion\Essential Studio\ {Platform}\ {version}\precompiledassemblies

**Example:** C:\Program Files (x86)\Syncfusion\Essential Studio\Windows\16.4.0.40\precompiledassemblies

## Toolbox Configuration

After installing the Syncfusion Platform Framework Add-On setup, you can configure the Framework 2.0, 3.5 and 4.5.1 controls in Visual Studio toolbox using [Syncfusion Toolbox Installer](https://help.syncfusion.com/common/essential-studio/utilities#for-wpf-windows-forms-and-aspnet-platforms)

Commit message:

Download information added for Framework Add On setup

Common/Essential-Studio/Installation/Essential-Studio-Platform-Framework-Add-Ons.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Essential Studio Platform Framework Add-Ons  | common | Syncfusion
description: add-ons for .net framework 2.0,3.5 and 4.5.1
platform: common
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio Platform Framework Add-Ons

## Overview

Starting with version 16.4.0.* (2018 Volume 4), Syncfusion has removed the .NET Framework 2.0, 3.5, 4.5.1 and MVC3 assemblies and provide the separate Framework Add-On setup for the following platforms. . 

N> Only customers with valid license can download and install the Framework Add-Ons

* Windows Forms
* WPF
* ASP.NET
* ASP.NET MVC
* JavaScript

## Download

1. You can download the Framework Add On setup under your registered Syncfusion account in [License and Downloads](https://www.syncfusion.com/account/downloads) page.

N> Only customers with valid license can download and install the Framework Add-Ons

2. Navigate to the required Essential Studio version and click **More Download Options**.

N> Syncfusion has started providing Framework Add On setup from 2018 Volume 4 release (v16.4.0.42)

![Download](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn7.png)

3. You can find the Syncfusion Framework Add On setup under the **Add-On** section.

![Download](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn8.png)



## Prerequisites

To install the above platform add-ons, corresponding Essential Studio platform setup should be installed in the same version. If not, prerequisite alert will be displayed.

![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn1.png)

## Step-by-Step Installation

The following procedure illustrates how to install Syncfusion Platform Framework Add-On setup.

1.  Double-click the Syncfusion Platform Framework Add-On setup file. Welcome wizard will be displayed. Click Next.

    ![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn2.png)

2.  Confirmation to run the Assembly Manager will be displayed. Click Next. 

    N> If you do not need the assemblies to be installed in GAC, uncheck the **Run Assembly Manager** checkbox and click Next.

    ![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn3.png)

3.  **Ready To Install** wizard will be displayed. Click **Install** to proceed installation of Syncfusion Platform Framework Add-On setup.

    ![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn4.png)

4.  Syncfusion Platform Framework Add-On installation will be started.

    ![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn5.png)

5.  Completed screen will be displayed once the installation is completed. Click Finish to exit the setup.
  
    ![Framework Add On](Framework-Add-On-Images/FrameworkAddOn6.png)
	
Now, you can find the Framework 2.0, 3.5 and 4.5.1 assemblies from the Syncfusion Essential Studio Platform installed location.

**Location:** {ProgramFilesFolder}\Syncfusion\Essential Studio\ {Platform}\ {version}\precompiledassemblies

**Example:** C:\Program Files (x86)\Syncfusion\Essential Studio\Windows\16.4.0.40\precompiledassemblies

## Toolbox Configuration

After installing the Syncfusion Platform Framework Add-On setup, you can configure the Framework 2.0, 3.5 and 4.5.1 controls in Visual Studio toolbox using [Syncfusion Toolbox Installer](https://help.syncfusion.com/common/essential-studio/utilities#for-wpf-windows-forms-and-aspnet-platforms)
