Common/Essential-Studio/Installation/Install-using-the-Web-Installer.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Install and deploy – Using Web Installer | Syncfusion
description: Learn more some information about installation and deployment of Syncfusion Essential studio using Web Installer.
platform: common
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---

# Installation and deployment of Essential Studio using Web Installer


## Overview

Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), Syncfusion provides Web Installer for Essential Studio platforms. This reduces the burden of downloading the installer of larger size. You can just download and launch the online installer which will be of smaller size and it will downloads and installs the Essential Studio products you have selected. The Essential Studio Web Installer includes the following platforms. You can download the latest version Essential Studio Web Installer [here](https://www.syncfusion.com/downloads/latest-version) . 

Starting with the version 17.3 (2019 Vol 3), Syncfusion provides updated version of Web Installer which allows both installation and uninstallation of the platforms for that specific version.

**Web**

* ASP.NET MVC
* ASP.NET Core
* JavaScript
* Blazor

**Mobile**

* Xamarin
* Flutter

**Desktop**

* Windows Forms
* WPF
* Universal Windows Platform

**FileFormats**

* Read and Write Excel, Word, PDF and PowerPoint files

**Web (Essential JS 1)**

* ASP.NET Web Forms
* ASP.NET MVC
* ASP.NET Core
* JavaScript
* PHP
* JSP

   N> Universal Windows Platform will be installed in Windows 8.1 and later.  

 
## Installation

The following procedure illustrates how to install Essential Studio Platform Online installer. 

1.  Double-click the Syncfusion Essential Studio Platform Online Installer. The installer wizard opens and extracts the package automatically.

    ![Installer Extraction Wizard](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img1.png)

    
    N> The installer wizard extracts the syncfusion{platform}webinstaller_{version}.exe dialog, displaying the unzip operation of the package.
    
2. Welcome wizard of the Syncfusion Online Installer will be displayed. Click Next.

   ![Welcome wizard](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img2.png)

  
3.  Platform Selection wizard will be displayed. Select the platforms to be installed from the **Available** tab. Select **Install All** checkbox to select all the platforms. Click Next.
    
	![Platform Selection wizard Available](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img3.png)
	
	I> If the required software of the selected platform was not already installed, **Additional Software Required** alert will be displayed. However, you can continue the installation and install the required software later.
	
	![Additional Software Alert](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img5.png)
		
	
4. Confirmation wizard will be displayed. Here you can view and modify the list of platforms that will be installed.

    ![Confirmation for install](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img6.png)
	
	N> You can check the Estimated size of the Download and Installation by clicking the **Download Size and Installation Size** link.
	
	![Downaload and Installation size](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img7.png)

5.  Configuration wizard will be displayed. Here you can change the Download, Install and samples location. Also, you can change the Additional settings by platform basis. To install using the default configuration, click Next.

    ![Install and samples location for install](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img8.png)
	
	I> From version 17.3 (2019 Vol 3), Syncfusion provides option to provide custom download location.
	
 
    N> From the 2018 Volume 2 release, Syncfusion has changed the install and samples location 
	   **Default Install location:** {ProgramFilesFolder}\Syncfusion\{Platform}\{version}
	   **Default Samples location:** C:\Users\Public\Documents\Syncfusion\{platform}\{version}
	   However, you can change the locations by clicking browse button.

	

    * Select the **Install Demos** check box to install Syncfusion samples, or leave the check box clear, when you do not want to install Syncfusion samples.
    * Select the **Register Syncfusion Assemblies in GAC** check box to install the latest Syncfusion assemblies in GAC, or clear this check box when you do not want to install the latest assemblies in GAC.
    * Select the **Configure Syncfusion controls in Visual Studio** check box to configure the Syncfusion controls in the Visual Studio toolbox, or clear this check box when you do not want to configure the Syncfusion controls in the Visual Studio toolbox during installation. Note that you must also select the Register Syncfusion assemblies in GAC check box when you select this check box.
    * Select the **Configure Syncfusion Extensions controls in Visual Studio** checkbox to configure the Syncfusion Extensions in Visual Studio or clear this check box when you do not want to configure the Syncfusion Extensions in Visual Studio.
	* Select the **Create Desktop Shortcut** checkbox to create the desktop shortcut for Syncfusion Control Panel.


6.  After reading the License Terms and Conditions, check the **I agree to the License Terms and Privacy Policy** check box. Click Next.

7. Login wizard will be displayed. You should enter your Syncfusion Direct-Trac login credentials. If you don't have Syncfusion Direct-Trac login credentials, then you can click on **Create an Account**. Else if you forgot your password, click on **Forgot Password** to create new password. Click Install. 

    ![Login wizard install](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img9.png)
	
	I> The selected platforms will be installed based on your Syncfusion License (Trial or Licensed).

8. Download and Installation progress will be displayed.

    ![Download and Installation progress install](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img10.png)

9. Once the Installation is complete, **Summary** wizard will be displayed. Here you can check the list of platforms which are installed successfully and failed. Click Finish to exit the Summary wizard. 

    ![Installation Summary](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img11.png)
	
	* Click **Launch Control Panel** to open the Syncfusion Control Panel.
	
10. You can find the Essential Studio installed information from the windows control panel.

    ![Control Panel](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img19.png)
	
	N> Starting with the version v18.1 (2020 Volume 1 release), Syncfusion started providing separate control panel entry for Essential Studio. 


## Uninstallation

Starting from 2020 Volume 1 release (v18.1), Syncfusion provides option for uninstalling the Essential Studio from the windows control panel. So, you can uninstall from control panel or using the installer itself.

### Uninstalling from Control Panel

1. Open the Windows Control Panel.

2. Syncfusion Essential Studio entry will be present like **Syncfusion Essential Studio {version}**. Double click that entry.

   ![Control Panel](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img19.png)

3. Web Installer will be launched and here you can select the list of platforms to be uninstalled in that version.

   ![Platform Selection wizard Installed](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img4.png)
	
4. Confirmation wizard will be displayed. Here, you can view and modify the list of platforms that will be uninstalled. Click Uninstall.

    ![Confirmation for uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img12.png)
	
5. Uninstallation progress will be displayed.
  
    ![Progress for uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img13.png)
	
6. Once the Uninstallation is complete, **Summary** wizard will be displayed. Here you can check the list of platforms which are uninstalled successfully and failed. Click Finish to exit the Summary wizard. 

    ![Uninstallation Summary](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img14.png)

### Uninstalling from Installer 

Starting with the version 17.3 (2019 Vol 3), Syncfusion provides option for uninstalling the platforms of the same version from the Web Installer application itself. Select the list of the platforms to be uninstalled and Web Installer will uninstall those platforms one by one.

The following procedure illustrates how to uninstall Essential Studio Platform from Web Installer. 

1.  Double-click the Syncfusion Essential Studio Platform Online Installer. The installer Wizard opens and extracts the package automatically.

    ![Installer Extraction Wizard uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img1.png)
	
2. Welcome wizard of the Syncfusion Online Installer will be displayed. Click Next.

   ![Welcome wizard uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img2.png)
   
3. Platform Selection wizard will be displayed. Select the platforms to be uninstalled from the **Installed** tab. Select **Uninstall All** checkbox to select all the platforms. Click Next.
    
	![Platform Selection wizard Installed](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img4.png)
	
4. Confirmation wizard will be displayed. Here you can view and modify the list of platforms that will be uninstalled. Click Uninstall.

    ![Confirmation for uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img12.png)
	
5. Uninstallation progress will be displayed.
  
    ![Progress for uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img13.png)
	
6. Once the Uninstallation is complete, **Summary** wizard will be displayed. Here you can check the list of platforms which are uninstalled successfully and failed. Click Finish to exit the Summary wizard. 

    ![Uninstallation Summary](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img14.png)
	
	
## Installation and Uninstallation

Starting with the version 17.3 (2019 Vol 3), Syncfusion provides option for both install and uninstall the platforms of the same version from the Web Installer application itself.

The following procedure illustrates how to install/uninstall Essential Studio Platform from Web Installer. 

1.  Double-click the Syncfusion Essential Studio Platform Online Installer. The installer Wizard opens and extracts the package automatically.

    ![Installer Extraction Wizard Install/Uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img1.png)
	
2. Welcome wizard of the Syncfusion Online Installer will be displayed. Click Next.

   ![Welcome wizard for Install/Uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img2.png)
   
3. Platform Selection wizard will be displayed. Select the platforms to be installed from the **Available** tab and platforms to be uninstalled from the **Installed** tab. Click Next.

   **Available**
	
    ![Platform Selection wizard Available Install/Uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img3.png)
	
   **Installed**
	
    ![Platform Selection wizard Installed](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img4.png)
	
4. Confirmation wizard will be displayed. Here you can view and modify the list of platforms that will be installed/uninstalled.

    ![Confirmation for install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img15.png)
	
	N> You can check the Estimated size of the Download and Installation by clicking the **Download Size and Installation Size** link.
	
	![Downaload and Installation size install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img16.png)

5.  Configuration wizard will be displayed. Here you can change the Download, Install and samples location. Also, you can change the Additional settings by platform basis. To install using the default configuration, click Next.

    ![Install and samples location install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img8.png)
	
	I> From version 17.3 (2019 Vol 3), Syncfusion provides option to provide custom download location.
	
6.  After reading the License Terms and Conditions, check the **I agree to the License Terms and Privacy Policy** check box. Click Next.

7. Login wizard will be displayed. You should enter your Syncfusion Direct-Trac login credentials. If you don't have Syncfusion Direct-Trac login credentials, then you can click on **Create an Account**. Else if you forgot your password, click on **Forgot Password** to create new password. Click Install. 

    ![Login wizard install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img9.png)
	
	I> The selected platforms will be installed based on your Syncfusion License (Trial or Licensed).

8. Download, Installation and Uninstallation progress will be displayed.

    ![Download and Installation progress install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img17.png)

9. Once the Installation is complete, **Summary** wizard will be displayed. Here you can check the list of platforms which are **installed/uninstalled** successfully and failed. Click Finish to exit the Summary wizard. 

    ![Summary install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img18.png)
	
	* Click **Launch Control Panel** to open the Syncfusion Control Panel.

Commit message:

Content modified for Install and Uninstall section

Common/Essential-Studio/Installation/Install-using-the-Web-Installer.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Install and deploy – Using Web Installer | Syncfusion
description: Learn more some information about installation and deployment of Syncfusion Essential studio using Web Installer.
platform: common
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---

# Installation and deployment of Essential Studio using Web Installer


## Overview

Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), Syncfusion provides Web Installer for Essential Studio platforms. This reduces the burden of downloading the installer of larger size. You can just download and launch the online installer which will be of smaller size and it will downloads and installs the Essential Studio products you have selected. The Essential Studio Web Installer includes the following platforms. You can download the latest version Essential Studio Web Installer [here](https://www.syncfusion.com/downloads/latest-version) . 

Starting with the version 17.3 (2019 Vol 3), Syncfusion provides updated version of Web Installer which allows both installation and uninstallation of the platforms for that specific version.

**Web**

* ASP.NET MVC
* ASP.NET Core
* JavaScript
* Blazor

**Mobile**

* Xamarin
* Flutter

**Desktop**

* Windows Forms
* WPF
* Universal Windows Platform

**FileFormats**

* Read and Write Excel, Word, PDF and PowerPoint files

**Web (Essential JS 1)**

* ASP.NET Web Forms
* ASP.NET MVC
* ASP.NET Core
* JavaScript
* PHP
* JSP

   N> Universal Windows Platform will be installed in Windows 8.1 and later.  

 
## Installation

The following procedure illustrates how to install Essential Studio Platform Online installer. 

1.  Double-click the Syncfusion Essential Studio Platform Online Installer. The installer wizard opens and extracts the package automatically.

    ![Installer Extraction Wizard](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img1.png)

    
    N> The installer wizard extracts the syncfusion{platform}webinstaller_{version}.exe dialog, displaying the unzip operation of the package.
    
2. Welcome wizard of the Syncfusion Online Installer will be displayed. Click Next.

   ![Welcome wizard](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img2.png)

  
3.  Platform Selection wizard will be displayed. Select the platforms to be installed from the **Available** tab. Select **Install All** checkbox to select all the platforms. Click Next.
    
	![Platform Selection wizard Available](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img3.png)
	
	I> If the required software of the selected platform was not already installed, **Additional Software Required** alert will be displayed. However, you can continue the installation and install the required software later.
	
	![Additional Software Alert](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img5.png)
		
	
4. Confirmation wizard will be displayed. Here you can view and modify the list of platforms that will be installed.

    ![Confirmation for install](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img6.png)
	
	N> You can check the Estimated size of the Download and Installation by clicking the **Download Size and Installation Size** link.
	
	![Downaload and Installation size](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img7.png)

5.  Configuration wizard will be displayed. Here you can change the Download, Install and samples location. Also, you can change the Additional settings by platform basis. To install using the default configuration, click Next.

    ![Install and samples location for install](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img8.png)
	
	I> From version 17.3 (2019 Vol 3), Syncfusion provides option to provide custom download location.
	
 
    N> From the 2018 Volume 2 release, Syncfusion has changed the install and samples location 
	   **Default Install location:** {ProgramFilesFolder}\Syncfusion\{Platform}\{version}
	   **Default Samples location:** C:\Users\Public\Documents\Syncfusion\{platform}\{version}
	   However, you can change the locations by clicking browse button.

	

    * Select the **Install Demos** check box to install Syncfusion samples, or leave the check box clear, when you do not want to install Syncfusion samples.
    * Select the **Register Syncfusion Assemblies in GAC** check box to install the latest Syncfusion assemblies in GAC, or clear this check box when you do not want to install the latest assemblies in GAC.
    * Select the **Configure Syncfusion controls in Visual Studio** check box to configure the Syncfusion controls in the Visual Studio toolbox, or clear this check box when you do not want to configure the Syncfusion controls in the Visual Studio toolbox during installation. Note that you must also select the Register Syncfusion assemblies in GAC check box when you select this check box.
    * Select the **Configure Syncfusion Extensions controls in Visual Studio** checkbox to configure the Syncfusion Extensions in Visual Studio or clear this check box when you do not want to configure the Syncfusion Extensions in Visual Studio.
	* Select the **Create Desktop Shortcut** checkbox to create the desktop shortcut for Syncfusion Control Panel.


6.  After reading the License Terms and Conditions, check the **I agree to the License Terms and Privacy Policy** check box. Click Next.

7. Login wizard will be displayed. You should enter your Syncfusion Direct-Trac login credentials. If you don't have Syncfusion Direct-Trac login credentials, then you can click on **Create an Account**. Else if you forgot your password, click on **Forgot Password** to create new password. Click Install. 

    ![Login wizard install](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img9.png)
	
	I> The selected platforms will be installed based on your Syncfusion License (Trial or Licensed).

8. Download and Installation progress will be displayed.

    ![Download and Installation progress install](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img10.png)

9. Once the Installation is complete, **Summary** wizard will be displayed. Here you can check the list of platforms which are installed successfully and failed. Click Finish to exit the Summary wizard. 

    ![Installation Summary](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img11.png)
	
	* Click **Launch Control Panel** to open the Syncfusion Control Panel.
	
10. You can find the Essential Studio installed information from the windows control panel.

    ![Control Panel](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img19.png)
	
	N> Starting with the version v18.1 (2020 Volume 1 release), Syncfusion started providing separate control panel entry for Essential Studio. 


## Uninstallation

Starting from 2020 Volume 1 release (v18.1), Syncfusion provides option for uninstalling the Essential Studio from the windows control panel. So, you can uninstall from control panel or using the installer itself.

### Uninstalling from Control Panel

1. Open the Windows Control Panel.

2. Syncfusion Essential Studio entry will be present like **Syncfusion Essential Studio {version}**. Double click that entry.

   ![Control Panel](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img19.png)

3. Web Installer will be launched and here you can select the list of platforms to be uninstalled in that version.

   ![Platform Selection wizard Installed](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img4.png)
	
4. Confirmation wizard will be displayed. Here, you can view and modify the list of platforms that will be uninstalled. Click Uninstall.

    ![Confirmation for uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img12.png)
	
5. Uninstallation progress will be displayed.
  
    ![Progress for uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img13.png)
	
6. Once the Uninstallation is complete, **Summary** wizard will be displayed. Here you can check the list of platforms which are uninstalled successfully and failed. Click Finish to exit the Summary wizard. 

    ![Uninstallation Summary](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img14.png)

### Uninstalling from Installer 

Starting with the version 17.3 (2019 Vol 3), Syncfusion provides option for uninstalling the platforms of the same version from the Web Installer application itself. Select the list of the platforms to be uninstalled and Web Installer will uninstall those platforms one by one.

The following procedure illustrates how to uninstall Essential Studio Platform from Web Installer. 

1.  Double-click the Syncfusion Essential Studio Platform Online Installer. The installer Wizard opens and extracts the package automatically.

    ![Installer Extraction Wizard uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img1.png)
	
2. Welcome wizard of the Syncfusion Online Installer will be displayed. Click Next.

   ![Welcome wizard uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img2.png)
   
3. Platform Selection wizard will be displayed. Select the platforms to be uninstalled from the **Installed** tab. Select **Uninstall All** checkbox to select all the platforms. Click Next.
    
	![Platform Selection wizard Installed](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img4.png)
	
4. Confirmation wizard will be displayed. Here you can view and modify the list of platforms that will be uninstalled. Click Uninstall.

    ![Confirmation for uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img12.png)
	
5. Uninstallation progress will be displayed.
  
    ![Progress for uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img13.png)
	
6. Once the Uninstallation is complete, **Summary** wizard will be displayed. Here you can check the list of platforms which are uninstalled successfully and failed. Click Finish to exit the Summary wizard. 

    ![Uninstallation Summary](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img14.png)
	
	
## Installation and Uninstallation

Till version 17.2, Syncfusion Web Installer had option for installation alone. Starting with the version 17.3 (2019 Vol 3), Syncfusion provides option for both installing and uninstalling the platforms of the same version from the Web Installer application itself.

The following procedure illustrates how to install/uninstall Essential Studio Platform from Web Installer. 

1.  Double-click the Syncfusion Essential Studio Platform Online Installer. The installer Wizard opens and extracts the package automatically.

    ![Installer Extraction Wizard Install/Uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img1.png)
	
2. Welcome wizard of the Syncfusion Online Installer will be displayed. Click Next.

   ![Welcome wizard for Install/Uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img2.png)
   
3. Platform Selection wizard will be displayed. Select the platforms to be installed from the **Available** tab and platforms to be uninstalled from the **Installed** tab. Click Next.

   **Available**
	
    ![Platform Selection wizard Available Install/Uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img3.png)
	
   **Installed**
	
    ![Platform Selection wizard Installed](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img4.png)
	
4. Confirmation wizard will be displayed. Here you can view and modify the list of platforms that will be installed/uninstalled.

    ![Confirmation for install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img15.png)
	
	N> You can check the Estimated size of the Download and Installation by clicking the **Download Size and Installation Size** link.
	
	![Downaload and Installation size install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img16.png)

5.  Configuration wizard will be displayed. Here you can change the Download, Install and samples location. Also, you can change the Additional settings by platform basis. To install using the default configuration, click Next.

    ![Install and samples location install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img8.png)
	
	I> From version 17.3 (2019 Vol 3), Syncfusion provides option to provide custom download location.
	
6.  After reading the License Terms and Conditions, check the **I agree to the License Terms and Privacy Policy** check box. Click Next.

7. Login wizard will be displayed. You should enter your Syncfusion Direct-Trac login credentials. If you don't have Syncfusion Direct-Trac login credentials, then you can click on **Create an Account**. Else if you forgot your password, click on **Forgot Password** to create new password. Click Install. 

    ![Login wizard install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img9.png)
	
	I> The selected platforms will be installed based on your Syncfusion License (Trial or Licensed).

8. Download, Installation and Uninstallation progress will be displayed.

    ![Download and Installation progress install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img17.png)

9. Once the Installation is complete, **Summary** wizard will be displayed. Here you can check the list of platforms which are **installed/uninstalled** successfully and failed. Click Finish to exit the Summary wizard. 

    ![Summary install/uninstall](WebInstaller/Step-by-Step-Installation_img18.png)
	
	* Click **Launch Control Panel** to open the Syncfusion Control Panel.
