Common/Essential-Studio/licensing/how-to-register-in-an-application.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Overview of Syncfusion license registration - Syncfusion
description: Learn here about how to register Syncfusion license key for Syncfusion application for license validation.
platform: common
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #fbefca;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px
}
</style>


# Register Syncfusion License key

The generated license key is just a string that needs to be registered before any Syncfusion control is initiated. The following code is used to register the license.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

N> * Place the license key between double quotes.  Also, ensure that Syncfusion.Licensing.dll is referenced in your project where the license key is being registered.
* Syncfusion license validation is done offline during application execution and does not require internet access.  Apps registered with a Syncfusion license key can be deployed on any system that does not have an internet connection.

## Where to register the Syncfusion License Key?

Below are the recommended place to register the license key in the various platforms (ASP.NET Core, Xamarin, etc.) 


## Windows Forms

Register the licensing code in static void main method before calling **Application.Run()** method in C#. In Visual Basic, register the licensing code in **Application.designer.vb** file constructor.

N> If the **Application.Designer.vb** file is not included by default in the project, it will be generated in the **My Project** folder in your VB project directory.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
static void Main()
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
    Application.EnableVisualStyles();
    Application.SetCompatibleTextRenderingDefault(false);
    Application.Run(new Form1());
}
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}
Public Sub New()
		MyBase.New(Global.Microsoft.VisualBasic.ApplicationServices.AuthenticationMode.Windows)
		'Register Syncfusion License
		Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY")
		Me.IsSingleInstance = False
		Me.EnableVisualStyles = True
		Me.SaveMySettingsOnExit = True
		Me.ShutdownStyle = Global.Microsoft.VisualBasic.ApplicationServices.ShutdownMode.AfterMainFormCloses
End Sub
{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}
 
## WPF

Register the license key in App constructor of **App.xaml.cs** in C#. If App constructor not available in **App.xaml.cs**, create the "App()" constructor in **App.xaml.cs** and register the license key inside the constructor. In Visual Basic, register the license code in **App.xaml.vb**.
{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public partial class App : Application
{
	public App()
	{
		//Register Syncfusion license
		Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	}	
} 
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}
Private Sub New()
	'Register Syncfusion License
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY")
End Sub
{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}

## ASP.NET MVC

Register the license key in Application_Start method of **Global.asax.cs/Global.asax.vb**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
void Application_Start(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
	// Code that runs on application startup
	RouteConfig.RegisterRoutes(RouteTable.Routes);
	BundleConfig.RegisterBundles(BundleTable.Bundles);
}
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}
Protected Sub Application_Start()
        'Syncfusion Licensing Register
        Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY")
        AreaRegistration.RegisterAllAreas()
        Register(GlobalConfiguration.Configuration)
        FilterConfig.RegisterGlobalFilters(GlobalFilters.Filters)
        RouteConfig.RegisterRoutes(RouteTable.Routes)
        BundleConfig.RegisterBundles(BundleTable.Bundles)
End Sub
{% endhighlight %}
	
{% endtabs %} 

## ASP.NET Core

Register the license key in Configure method of **Startup.cs**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
// This method gets called by the runtime. Use this method to configure the HTTP request pipeline.
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IHostingEnvironment env, ILoggerFactory loggerFactory)
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
	loggerFactory.AddConsole(Configuration.GetSection("Logging"));
	loggerFactory.AddDebug();

	...
	
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %} 

## Blazor

### Server side application

Register the license key in Configure method of **Startup.cs**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
// This method gets called by the runtime. Use this method to configure the HTTP request pipeline.
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
    //Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
    if (env.IsDevelopment())
    {
        app.UseDeveloperExceptionPage();
    }
    else
    {
        app.UseExceptionHandler("/Error");
        // The default HSTS value is 30 days. You may want to change this for production scenarios, see https://aka.ms/aspnetcore-hsts.
        app.UseHsts();
    }

    app.UseHttpsRedirection();
    app.UseStaticFiles();

    app.UseRouting();


    app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
    {
         endpoints.MapBlazorHub();
         endpoints.MapFallbackToPage("/_Host");
    });
}

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %} 

### Server side application using .NET 6.0

Register the license key in the **Program.cs** file if you created the Blazor server side application with Visual Studio 2022 and .NET 6.0. 

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
var app = builder.Build();
//Register Syncfusion license
Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");

// Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
if (!app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.UseExceptionHandler("/Error");
    // The default HSTS value is 30 days. You may want to change this for production scenarios, see https://aka.ms/aspnetcore-hsts.
    app.UseHsts();
}

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %} 

### Client side application

Register the license key in main method of **Program.cs**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
using Syncfusion.Blazor;
public static async Task Main(string[] args) 
{ 
    //Register Syncfusion license 
    Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");  
    var builder = WebAssemblyHostBuilder.CreateDefault(args); 
    builder.RootComponents.Add<App>("app");                               
    builder.Services.AddSyncfusionBlazor(); 
    await builder.Build().RunAsync(); 
} 

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %} 

## UWP

Register the license key in **App.xaml.cs** constructor before InitializeComponent() in C#. If App constructor not available in **App.xaml.cs**, create the "App()" constructor in **App.xaml.cs** and register the license key inside the constructor. In Visual Basic, register the licensing code in **App.xaml.vb** file before OnLaunched event.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public App()
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");

	this.InitializeComponent();
	this.Suspending += OnSuspending;
}
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}
Public Sub New()
	'Register Syncfusion License
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY")
End Sub

Protected Overrides Sub OnLaunched(e As Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.LaunchActivatedEventArgs)

...

End Sub
{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}

## WinUI

Register the license key in App constructor of **App.xaml.cs** in C#. If App constructor not available in **App.xaml.cs**, create the "App()" constructor in **App.xaml.cs** and register the license key inside the constructor.
{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public partial class App : Application
{
	public App()
	{
		//Register Syncfusion license
		Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	}	
} 
{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}

## Xamarin.Forms

Register the license key in **App.xaml.cs** constructor before InitializeComponent(). If App constructor not available in **App.xaml.cs**, create the "App()" constructor in **App.xaml.cs** and register the license key inside the constructor.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public App()
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
	InitializeComponent();
	
	MainPage = new App1.MainPage();
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

N> If you are developing an application using Gorilla Player SDK, it is must to register the Syncfusion license key in Xamarin.Forms.Android, Xamarin.Forms.iOS, and Xamarin.Forms.UWP.
   Refer [this link](https://help.syncfusion.com/xamarin/licensing/how-to-register-in-an-application#xamarinformsandroid) to register Syncfusion license key in Xamarin.Forms.Android
   Refer [this link](https://help.syncfusion.com/xamarin/licensing/how-to-register-in-an-application#xamarinformsios) to register Syncfusion license key in Xamarin.Forms.iOS
   Refer [this link](https://help.syncfusion.com/xamarin/licensing/how-to-register-in-an-application#xamarinformsuwp) to register Syncfusion license key in Xamarin.Forms.UWP



If you are using **Prism Framework** in your application, register the license key before InitializeComponent in OnInitialized method of **App.Xaml.cs**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
protected override async void OnInitialized()
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
    Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
 
    InitializeComponent();
 
    await NavigationService.NavigateAsync("NavigationPage/MainPage");
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

## Xamarin.Android

Register the license key in **OnCreate** override method of your main activity class before initializing any Syncfusion control.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
protected override void OnCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState)
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");

	base.OnCreate(savedInstanceState);

	// Set our view from the "main" layout resource
	SetContentView(Resource.Layout.Main);
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}
 

## Xamarin.iOS

Register the license key in **FinishedLaunching** override method of **AppDelegate.cs**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public override bool FinishedLaunching(UIApplication application, NSDictionary launchOptions)
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");

	// create a new window instance based on the screen size
	Window = new UIWindow(UIScreen.MainScreen.Bounds);

	// If you have defined a root view controller, set it here:
	// Window.RootViewController = myViewController;

	// make the window visible
	Window.MakeKeyAndVisible();

	return true;
} 
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

## .NET MAUI

You can register the license key in **App.xaml.cs** constructor before InitializeComponent(). If App constructor not available in **App.xaml.cs**, create the "App()" constructor in **App.xaml.cs** and register the license key inside the constructor.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public App()
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
	InitializeComponent();
	
	MainPage = new AppShell();
}

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

## Flutter

Register the license key in the **main method** of your example and import the ‘syncfusion_flutter_core/core.dart' library.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight Dart %}
// Refer the core package
import 'package:syncfusion_flutter_core/core.dart';

void main() { 
// Register Syncfusion license 
SyncfusionLicense.registerLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY"); 
return runApp(MyApp()); 
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

N> License key registration is not required for Flutter, if you are using v18.3.0.x or later.

## Java

Import ‘syncfusion.licensing' package and register the license key in the **main method** of your console application.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JAVA %}
// Refer the licensing package
import com.syncfusion.licensing.*;

static void main() { 
// Register Syncfusion license 
SyncfusionLicenseProvider.registerLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY"); 
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

N> License key registration is not required for Java before v19.1.

## JavaScript (Essential JS 2)

Syncfusion license key should be registered, if your project using Syncfusion EJ2-JavaScript packages reference. The generated license key is a string that needs to be registered after any [Syncfusion JavaScript script reference](https://ej2.syncfusion.com/javascript/documentation/getting-started/quick-start/#configure-syncfusion-javascript-es5-control-in-the-application-1).

N> Only from 2022 Vol 1 v20.1.0.47, license key registration required for Essential JavaScript 2 products.

The following code is used to register the license.

### Javascript es5

Register the license key by using **registerLicense** method after the [Syncfusion JavaScript script](https://ej2.syncfusion.com/javascript/documentation/getting-started/quick-start/#configure-syncfusion-javascript-es5-control-in-the-application-1) file reference as below.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JS %}
// Registering Syncfusion license key
ej.base.registerLicense('License Key');
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

### JavaScript es6 / TypeScript

Register the license key at the entry point of the project before using the Syncfusion controls.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JS %}
// Registering Syncfusion license key
import { registerLicense } from '@syncfusion/ej2-base';

registerLicense('License key');
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

### Angular

Register the license key in the **main.ts** file of the Angular project.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JS %}
import { enableProdMode } from '@angular/core';
import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';

import { AppModule } from './app/app.module';
import { environment } from './environments/environment';
import { registerLicense } from '@syncfusion/ej2-base';

// Registering Syncfusion license key
registerLicense('License Key');

if (environment.production) {
  enableProdMode();
}

platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule)
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

### ReactJS

Register the license key in the **index.js** file of the React project.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JS %}
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import './index.css';
import App from './App';
import reportWebVitals from './reportWebVitals';
import { registerLicense } from '@syncfusion/ej2-base';

// Registering Syncfusion license key
registerLicense('License Key');

ReactDOM.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <App />
  </React.StrictMode>,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

### VueJS

Register the license key in the **index.js** file of the Vue project.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JS %}
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'
import { registerLicense } from '@syncfusion/ej2-base';

// Registering Syncfusion license key
registerLicense('License Key');
createApp(App).mount('#app')
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

Commit message:

CI-license-validation Improvement changes - dev

Common/Essential-Studio/licensing/how-to-register-in-an-application.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Overview of Syncfusion license registration - Syncfusion
description: Learn here about how to register Syncfusion license key for Syncfusion application for license validation.
platform: common
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #fbefca;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px
}
</style>


# Register Syncfusion License key

The generated license key is just a string that needs to be registered before any Syncfusion control is initiated. The following code is used to register the license.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

N> * Place the license key between double quotes.  Also, ensure that Syncfusion.Licensing.dll is referenced in your project where the license key is being registered.
* Syncfusion license validation is done offline during application execution and does not require internet access.  Apps registered with a Syncfusion license key can be deployed on any system that does not have an internet connection.

I> Syncfusion license keys can be validated during the Continuous Integration (CI) processes to ensure proper licensing and prevent licensing errors during deployment. Refer to the [CI License Validation] (https://help.syncfusion.com/common/essential-studio/licensing/licensing-faq/ci-license-validation) section for detailed instructions on how to implement it.

## Where to register the Syncfusion License Key?

Below are the recommended place to register the license key in the various platforms (ASP.NET Core, Xamarin, etc.) 


## Windows Forms

Register the licensing code in static void main method before calling **Application.Run()** method in C#. In Visual Basic, register the licensing code in **Application.designer.vb** file constructor.

N> If the **Application.Designer.vb** file is not included by default in the project, it will be generated in the **My Project** folder in your VB project directory.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
static void Main()
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
    Application.EnableVisualStyles();
    Application.SetCompatibleTextRenderingDefault(false);
    Application.Run(new Form1());
}
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}
Public Sub New()
		MyBase.New(Global.Microsoft.VisualBasic.ApplicationServices.AuthenticationMode.Windows)
		'Register Syncfusion License
		Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY")
		Me.IsSingleInstance = False
		Me.EnableVisualStyles = True
		Me.SaveMySettingsOnExit = True
		Me.ShutdownStyle = Global.Microsoft.VisualBasic.ApplicationServices.ShutdownMode.AfterMainFormCloses
End Sub
{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}
 
## WPF

Register the license key in App constructor of **App.xaml.cs** in C#. If App constructor not available in **App.xaml.cs**, create the "App()" constructor in **App.xaml.cs** and register the license key inside the constructor. In Visual Basic, register the license code in **App.xaml.vb**.
{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public partial class App : Application
{
	public App()
	{
		//Register Syncfusion license
		Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	}	
} 
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}
Private Sub New()
	'Register Syncfusion License
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY")
End Sub
{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}

## ASP.NET MVC

Register the license key in Application_Start method of **Global.asax.cs/Global.asax.vb**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
void Application_Start(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
	// Code that runs on application startup
	RouteConfig.RegisterRoutes(RouteTable.Routes);
	BundleConfig.RegisterBundles(BundleTable.Bundles);
}
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}
Protected Sub Application_Start()
        'Syncfusion Licensing Register
        Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY")
        AreaRegistration.RegisterAllAreas()
        Register(GlobalConfiguration.Configuration)
        FilterConfig.RegisterGlobalFilters(GlobalFilters.Filters)
        RouteConfig.RegisterRoutes(RouteTable.Routes)
        BundleConfig.RegisterBundles(BundleTable.Bundles)
End Sub
{% endhighlight %}
	
{% endtabs %} 

## ASP.NET Core

Register the license key in Configure method of **Startup.cs**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
// This method gets called by the runtime. Use this method to configure the HTTP request pipeline.
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IHostingEnvironment env, ILoggerFactory loggerFactory)
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
	loggerFactory.AddConsole(Configuration.GetSection("Logging"));
	loggerFactory.AddDebug();

	...
	
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %} 

## Blazor

### Server side application

Register the license key in Configure method of **Startup.cs**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
// This method gets called by the runtime. Use this method to configure the HTTP request pipeline.
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
    //Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
    if (env.IsDevelopment())
    {
        app.UseDeveloperExceptionPage();
    }
    else
    {
        app.UseExceptionHandler("/Error");
        // The default HSTS value is 30 days. You may want to change this for production scenarios, see https://aka.ms/aspnetcore-hsts.
        app.UseHsts();
    }

    app.UseHttpsRedirection();
    app.UseStaticFiles();

    app.UseRouting();


    app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
    {
         endpoints.MapBlazorHub();
         endpoints.MapFallbackToPage("/_Host");
    });
}

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %} 

### Server side application using .NET 6.0

Register the license key in the **Program.cs** file if you created the Blazor server side application with Visual Studio 2022 and .NET 6.0. 

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
var app = builder.Build();
//Register Syncfusion license
Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");

// Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
if (!app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.UseExceptionHandler("/Error");
    // The default HSTS value is 30 days. You may want to change this for production scenarios, see https://aka.ms/aspnetcore-hsts.
    app.UseHsts();
}

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %} 

### Client side application

Register the license key in main method of **Program.cs**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
using Syncfusion.Blazor;
public static async Task Main(string[] args) 
{ 
    //Register Syncfusion license 
    Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");  
    var builder = WebAssemblyHostBuilder.CreateDefault(args); 
    builder.RootComponents.Add<App>("app");                               
    builder.Services.AddSyncfusionBlazor(); 
    await builder.Build().RunAsync(); 
} 

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %} 

## UWP

Register the license key in **App.xaml.cs** constructor before InitializeComponent() in C#. If App constructor not available in **App.xaml.cs**, create the "App()" constructor in **App.xaml.cs** and register the license key inside the constructor. In Visual Basic, register the licensing code in **App.xaml.vb** file before OnLaunched event.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public App()
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");

	this.InitializeComponent();
	this.Suspending += OnSuspending;
}
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}
Public Sub New()
	'Register Syncfusion License
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY")
End Sub

Protected Overrides Sub OnLaunched(e As Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.LaunchActivatedEventArgs)

...

End Sub
{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}

## WinUI

Register the license key in App constructor of **App.xaml.cs** in C#. If App constructor not available in **App.xaml.cs**, create the "App()" constructor in **App.xaml.cs** and register the license key inside the constructor.
{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public partial class App : Application
{
	public App()
	{
		//Register Syncfusion license
		Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	}	
} 
{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}

## Xamarin.Forms

Register the license key in **App.xaml.cs** constructor before InitializeComponent(). If App constructor not available in **App.xaml.cs**, create the "App()" constructor in **App.xaml.cs** and register the license key inside the constructor.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public App()
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
	InitializeComponent();
	
	MainPage = new App1.MainPage();
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

N> If you are developing an application using Gorilla Player SDK, it is must to register the Syncfusion license key in Xamarin.Forms.Android, Xamarin.Forms.iOS, and Xamarin.Forms.UWP.
   Refer [this link](https://help.syncfusion.com/xamarin/licensing/how-to-register-in-an-application#xamarinformsandroid) to register Syncfusion license key in Xamarin.Forms.Android
   Refer [this link](https://help.syncfusion.com/xamarin/licensing/how-to-register-in-an-application#xamarinformsios) to register Syncfusion license key in Xamarin.Forms.iOS
   Refer [this link](https://help.syncfusion.com/xamarin/licensing/how-to-register-in-an-application#xamarinformsuwp) to register Syncfusion license key in Xamarin.Forms.UWP



If you are using **Prism Framework** in your application, register the license key before InitializeComponent in OnInitialized method of **App.Xaml.cs**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
protected override async void OnInitialized()
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
    Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
 
    InitializeComponent();
 
    await NavigationService.NavigateAsync("NavigationPage/MainPage");
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

## Xamarin.Android

Register the license key in **OnCreate** override method of your main activity class before initializing any Syncfusion control.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
protected override void OnCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState)
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");

	base.OnCreate(savedInstanceState);

	// Set our view from the "main" layout resource
	SetContentView(Resource.Layout.Main);
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}
 

## Xamarin.iOS

Register the license key in **FinishedLaunching** override method of **AppDelegate.cs**

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public override bool FinishedLaunching(UIApplication application, NSDictionary launchOptions)
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");

	// create a new window instance based on the screen size
	Window = new UIWindow(UIScreen.MainScreen.Bounds);

	// If you have defined a root view controller, set it here:
	// Window.RootViewController = myViewController;

	// make the window visible
	Window.MakeKeyAndVisible();

	return true;
} 
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

## .NET MAUI

You can register the license key in **App.xaml.cs** constructor before InitializeComponent(). If App constructor not available in **App.xaml.cs**, create the "App()" constructor in **App.xaml.cs** and register the license key inside the constructor.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}
public App()
{
	//Register Syncfusion license
	Syncfusion.Licensing.SyncfusionLicenseProvider.RegisterLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY");
	
	InitializeComponent();
	
	MainPage = new AppShell();
}

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

## Flutter

Register the license key in the **main method** of your example and import the ‘syncfusion_flutter_core/core.dart' library.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight Dart %}
// Refer the core package
import 'package:syncfusion_flutter_core/core.dart';

void main() { 
// Register Syncfusion license 
SyncfusionLicense.registerLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY"); 
return runApp(MyApp()); 
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

N> License key registration is not required for Flutter, if you are using v18.3.0.x or later.

## Java

Import ‘syncfusion.licensing' package and register the license key in the **main method** of your console application.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JAVA %}
// Refer the licensing package
import com.syncfusion.licensing.*;

static void main() { 
// Register Syncfusion license 
SyncfusionLicenseProvider.registerLicense("YOUR LICENSE KEY"); 
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

N> License key registration is not required for Java before v19.1.

## JavaScript (Essential JS 2)

Syncfusion license key should be registered, if your project using Syncfusion EJ2-JavaScript packages reference. The generated license key is a string that needs to be registered after any [Syncfusion JavaScript script reference](https://ej2.syncfusion.com/javascript/documentation/getting-started/quick-start/#configure-syncfusion-javascript-es5-control-in-the-application-1).

N> Only from 2022 Vol 1 v20.1.0.47, license key registration required for Essential JavaScript 2 products.

The following code is used to register the license.

### Javascript es5

Register the license key by using **registerLicense** method after the [Syncfusion JavaScript script](https://ej2.syncfusion.com/javascript/documentation/getting-started/quick-start/#configure-syncfusion-javascript-es5-control-in-the-application-1) file reference as below.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JS %}
// Registering Syncfusion license key
ej.base.registerLicense('License Key');
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

### JavaScript es6 / TypeScript

Register the license key at the entry point of the project before using the Syncfusion controls.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JS %}
// Registering Syncfusion license key
import { registerLicense } from '@syncfusion/ej2-base';

registerLicense('License key');
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

### Angular

Register the license key in the **main.ts** file of the Angular project.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JS %}
import { enableProdMode } from '@angular/core';
import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';

import { AppModule } from './app/app.module';
import { environment } from './environments/environment';
import { registerLicense } from '@syncfusion/ej2-base';

// Registering Syncfusion license key
registerLicense('License Key');

if (environment.production) {
  enableProdMode();
}

platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule)
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

### ReactJS

Register the license key in the **index.js** file of the React project.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JS %}
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import './index.css';
import App from './App';
import reportWebVitals from './reportWebVitals';
import { registerLicense } from '@syncfusion/ej2-base';

// Registering Syncfusion license key
registerLicense('License Key');

ReactDOM.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <App />
  </React.StrictMode>,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

### VueJS

Register the license key in the **index.js** file of the Vue project.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight JS %}
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'
import { registerLicense } from '@syncfusion/ej2-base';

// Registering Syncfusion license key
registerLicense('License Key');
createApp(App).mount('#app')
{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}
